---
title: Organizing Great Events Like .NET Fringe
author: Adron Hall
date: 2017-06-07 11:20:14
template: article.jade
---
In the few remaining hours of .NET Fringe I found a seat, sat down, and just started contemplating the reasons .NET Fringe, and conferences it was inspired by like JSConf, Node Conf, and others are such great conferences. This is the list of reasons I came up with. Each bullet includes a few of the reasons why this is a contributing reason to these types of conferences. I also tried to prioritize them as seemed logical.

<span class="more"></span>

* *People Inclusion*: We've tried with .NET Fringe, just as the organizers of the other named conference have, to be extremely inclusive. To invite people from communities we might not traditionally interact with. We make efforts to discover new groups of people outside of the normal day to day of our lives. This appears to work for the event, and we hope that it works well for all attendees.
* *Car-lite/Bus-lite/Commute-lite*: If people have to commute to and from the conference everyday, that adds a massive detractor to the event. Being required to travel anything more than 5-10 minutes to get to an event just derails the focused energy that the attendees could have without such a monotonous thing. There's a reason people pay high dollar to live somewhere with a minimalistic commute for their work, why would we force this on attendees? Simply, a commute is a no-go.
* *Location*: I might sound like a real estate person, because conferences just like living really are all about location, location, and location. This is as much about the city, town, or forrest the event is in as much as the building the actual event takes place in. For .NET Fringe the McMenamins businesses are exceptional for this type of event, make it easy, and provide that catered, unique, charismatic *weird* that one is often drawn to in Portland.
* *Walking*: Plenty of options to walk. Walking helps people think, it's proven, and having lots of people walking around during breaks, during confernece events, provides all the more opportunities to get together and talk about new, existing, or create ideas with each other. This might seem like a small element of the conference, but in the end it actually adds to it in a huge way - that's the basis for the breaks between talks, the basis in having the events in walkable areas, and generally focusing on a cohesive experience between individuals.
* *Pricing*: Honestly, maybe we should charge more? I'm not sure because the pricing is great in my opinion of what I'd pay out of pocket without corporate backing. Overall pricing can be a barrier to entry, but we've attempted to keep it reasonably priced vs. the big trash fire conferences like VMWorld or that shit pile Oracle hosts every year. Those just don't provide any real vested interest or connection to where they're hosted and that brings up another point...
* *SMALL footprint*: We aim to have a moderate sized crowd. We do NOT want a 3000 person conference for something like .NET Fringe. The reason is simple. We want people to be able to connect, feel like they're connected to the place we're at, and feel like they're not fighting between [FOMO](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=fomo) and overwhelmed by excessive events occurring all at same time. At the same time, we don't want attendees (like VMWorld, or whatever) to look like a flock of assholes that have invaded a city's local community and are wrecking things. If you ever want an idea of what I'm talking about read the local news in NYC, San Francisco, or a similar city when a large scale conference comes to town and annoys (or worse trashes) the local community.
* *Food*: Food can't be a distraction. It also shouldn't put people to sleep. There's a reason we keep sugars and other trash foods to a minimum - they slow us down and make our brains put us to sleep. We attempt to stick to food that helps the thinker on the top of our shoulders. Sometimes we succeed, sometimes its a bit tough since we have a specific selection of items at most venues. Hopefully, everybody gets to eat, eat well, and stay focused. The other aim around food is to be in an area where there are vast numbers of breakfast and dinner joints around the venue. Portland makes this very easy with walking distance locations all over the place. Again combining two great things to have break out sessions and talk to others about things you're passionate about!

There are more, I may update this entry a few times with additional reasons. This however is the starting point. Feel free to ping me with your thoughts [@Adron](https://twitter.com/Adron).